# Namaste React : Ep-02 Igniting your App

## What is `NPM` ?
 - It is a tool for Package Management and default package manager for Node projects. `npm` is installed
 automatically when `Node JS` is installed. It comes with `CLI` to interact with online npm database.
 This database is called `npm registry`. It hosts private and public packages.

 ## How to `initialize npm`?

 ```
npm init
 ```
 - `npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, npm takes care of `it and creates the package.json json` file automatically , but `without configurations`.

 ## What is Parcel/Webpack? Why do we need it?

 - Parcel/Webpack are type of application bundlers used for development and production purposes. It comes with different
    functionalities and features. Parcel can take any type of file as an entry point, but an HTML or JavaScript file is a good place to start. 

### Parcel Features

- `HMR (Hot Module Replacement)`: Parcel keeps track of the file changes via a `File Watching algorithm written in C++` and render the changes in the file.
- `Minification`
- Dev and Prod Build
- `Image Optimization`
- Superfast Building algorithm
- Caching while development
- Compatible with older versions of browswer
- HTTPS in dev
- Port number
- Consistent Hashing
- Code Splitting
- Zero Configuration

### Installation

```
npm i -D parcel
```
- `D` stands for development as `development-dependency`.

### Parcel commands
- For Development Build
```
npx parcel <entry-point>

```
- For Production Build
```
npx parcel build <entry_point>
```

## Q: What is `.parcel-cache`?

`.parcel-cache` is used by Parcel to reduce `build time`. It stores information about the project when it builds in development. So when it rebuilds, it does parse or analyse the code from scratch.

##  Q: What is `npx`?

- `npx` is a tool that is used to `execute` the packages. It comes with npm when you install nodejs. It is an `npm package runner` with which you can execute any node package in the npm registry without even installing it.

## What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`?

- Dependencies should contain library or framework in which your app is built on, needs to function effectively such as 
`React, Angular, jQuery, Express etc.`. Dev-depenedencies are the dependencies that are neccessary only while developing a project, not neccessary in production. ex- `webpack, parcel, vite, mocha`.

- To save a dependency as a devDependency on installation we need to do,

```
npm install --save-dev 
```
or
```
npm install --save
```

## Q: What is `Tree Shaking`?

- `Tree shaking` is process of `removing the unwanted code` that we do not use while developing the application. Tree Shaking is a dead code elimination technique to optimize performance.

## What is `Hot Module Replacement`?
- `Hot Module Replacement (HMR)` exchanges, adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload.

## Q: List down your favorite 5 superpowers of `Parcel` and describe any 3 of them in your own words.

- Dev and Prod Build: It makes a dev build while development, which makes development faster.
- Image Optimization
- Minification: It minifies the code.
- Compression: It compresses the code, while build.
- Zero Configuration : It needs no configuration, so we directly leverage its advantages.
- Treeshaking
- Caching while Development


## Q: What is `.gitignore`? What should we add and not add into it?

- Whatever file or code we can `regenerate` we need not to push on Github. Hence we should include those files in `.gitignore`

## What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json` ?

### package.json
 - `package.json` keeps the neccessary information about project.
 - Application name, version, scripts.

### package-lock.json
- It is generated after an npm install
- This file is automatically generated for those operations where npm modifies either the node_module tree or package-json.
- ~ or ^ in package.json file : These are used with the versions of the package installed.

- In package.json
```
"dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
  }
```
- `~` : `Approximately equivalent to version`, will update you to all `future patch versions`, without incrementing the minor version.
- `^` : Will update you all `minor/patch` version.

## What is the `dist folder`?

- The `/dist` folder contains the `minimized` version of the source code. The code present in the `/dist` folder is actually the code which is used on `production` web applications.

## Q: What is `browserslist`?

`Browserslist` is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported in your frontend app by specifying "queries" in a config file

- in package.json
```
browserslist: ['last 5 versions'] // The app will run definitely on last 5 versions of all the browsers 
```
